Personality disorders affect 1 in 7 adults reducingtheir quality of life.   Schema-focused therapy hasbecome very popular in Psychotherapy in the treat-ment of personality disorders,  unfortunately thereis  still  in  increasing  societal  need  for  such  men-tal  healthcare.   Automation  in  the  assessment  ofschema-focused therapy allows for ecological mo-mentary assessments.  Resulting in a dynamic as-sessment of schema-modes and making the treat-ment  more  socially  available.   Automation  is  re-alised  by  Allaart  in  the  form  of  a  conversationalagent, but needs a better schema classification al-gorithm to improve its efficacy.  This study evalu-ated thek-Nearest Neighbour algorithm along withAllaart’s dataset on how well schemas can be clas-sified from stories.   An experimental pipeline hasbeen constructed considering both binary and ordi-nal classification.k-Nearest Neighbour performedsatisfactory in multi-label binary classification witha mean accuracy of 71% and a mean weighted f1-score of 0.62.k-Nearest Neighbour did not outper-form other classification algorithm and performedinadequate  in  ordinal  classification.    Results  in-dicate  a  contrast  between  majority  and  minorityclasses and found a recall of 100% on one of themajority classes.  Hence, the data set is concludedto be imbalanced. Due to limitations on the datasetand the conversational agent no reliable conclusioncan be made on the performance of kNN in auto-mated schema classification.  This study proposedfuture research to conduct a field experiment suchthat the conversational agent and its ability to per-form Ecological Momentary Assessments is evalu-ated and reliable data is produced.

To accommodate for full reproducibility and verification of this study, this study provided the reader with a detailed experimental pipeline. The pipeline describes the order of the steps and which tools were utilized. Furthermore, the repository of the code will be made public. It should be noted that Allaart’s dataset will not be made public since this might raise privacy concerns.
